ADR on Product image selection (#259)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/contributor/pages/adr/ADR023-image-selection-operator.adoc

= ADR023: Product image selection
Maxi Wittich <maximilian.wittich@stackable.tech>, Sebastian Bernauer <sebastian.bernauer@stackable.tech>
v0.1, 2022-08-31

> :status: pending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:status: accepted
```

* Good, because when `imageOverwrite.repository` and `imageOverwrite.tag` is specified, it's the same as option 2 with all the benefits

[[option5]]
=== Option 5
[source,yaml]
----
image: # mandatory complex enum
  stackableImageTag: 1.4.1-stackable2.1.0 # String
  # OR
  custom: docker.stackable.tech/stackable/superset:1.4.1-stackable2.1.0 # String
  # OR (later on)
  stackableVersion: 1.4.1 # String
  # OR (later on)
  recommendedVersion: true # needs to be set to true. if set to false operator will error out
----

We want to start with the first two variants `stackableImageTag` and `custom`. The `magicVersionResolving` and `recommendedVersion` variants _might_ be added later on.

* Bad, because it's breaking
* Good, because it gives all flexibility of all previous options
* Good, because we can non-breaking introduce new "magic" in the future by adding new image enum variants
* Good, because we can implement it as enum called e.g. `ImageSpec` in operator-rs which will offer a function like `resolve_image` that will make it easy for operators to use

[[option6]]
=== Option 6

> This option is **breaking**. It uses a complex enum, similar to Option 5. Option 5 does not account for the need to specify the product version with a custom image. It is also not possible to just use a custom docker repository and still use the operator recommended version (i.e. just mirroring the stackable repository). This option makes that possible. We first start with implementing stackableVersion and custom. The stackable enum will be implemented as soon as we have magic versioning. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is **breaking**. It uses a complex enum, similar to Option 5. Option 5 does not account for the need to specify the product version with a custom image. It is also not possible to just use a custom docker repository and still use the operator recommended version (i.e. just mirroring the stackable repository). This option makes that possible. We first start with implementing `stackableVersion` and `custom`. The `stackable` enum variant will be implemented as soon as we have the magic stackableVersion resolution. 
```
